RESTART_SYSCALL(2)                          Linux Programmer's Manual                         RESTART_SYSCALL(2)



NAME
       restart_syscall - restart a system call after interruption by a stop signal

SYNOPSIS
       int restart_syscall(void);

       Note: There is no glibc wrapper for this system call; see NOTES.

DESCRIPTION
       The  restart_syscall()  system  call  is  used  to  restart certain system calls after a process that was
       stopped by a signal (e.g., SIGSTOP or SIGTSTP) is later resumed after receiving a SIGCONT  signal.   This
       system call is designed only for internal use by the kernel.

       restart_syscall()  is  used  for  restarting  only those system calls that, when restarted, should adjust
       their time-related parameters—namely poll(2)  (since  Linux  2.6.24),  nanosleep(2)  (since  Linux  2.6),
       clock_nanosleep(2)  (since  Linux  2.6),  and  futex(2),  when  employed with the FUTEX_WAIT (since Linux
       2.6.22) and FUTEX_WAIT_BITSET (since Linux 2.6.31) operations.   restart_syscall()  restarts  the  inter‐
       rupted  system  call  with  a  time  argument  that is suitably adjusted to account for the time that has
       already elapsed  (including  the  time  where  the  process  was  stopped  by  a  signal).   Without  the
       restart_syscall() mechanism, restarting these system calls would not correctly deduce the already elapsed
       time when the process continued execution.

RETURN VALUE
       The return value of restart_syscall() is the return value of whatever system call is being restarted.

ERRORS
       errno is set as per the errors for whatever system call is being restarted by restart_syscall().

VERSIONS
       The restart_syscall() system call is present since Linux 2.6.

CONFORMING TO
       This system call is Linux specific.

NOTES
       There is no glibc wrapper for this system call, because it is intended for use only  by  the  kernel  and
       should never be called by applications.

       From  user  space, the operation of restart_syscall(2) is largely invisible: to the process that made the
       system call that is restarted, it appears as though that system call executed and returned in  the  usual
       fashion.

SEE ALSO
       sigreturn(2), sigaction(2), signal(7)

COLOPHON
       This  page  is  part  of  release 3.53 of the Linux man-pages project.  A description of the project, and
       information about reporting bugs, can be found at http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.



Linux                                              2013-07-30                                 RESTART_SYSCALL(2)
