SETFSGID(2)                                 Linux Programmer's Manual                                SETFSGID(2)



NAME
       setfsgid - set group identity used for file system checks

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h> /* glibc uses <sys/fsuid.h> */

       int setfsgid(uid_t fsgid);

DESCRIPTION
       The  system call setfsgid() sets the group ID that the Linux kernel uses to check for all accesses to the
       file system.  Normally, the value of fsgid will shadow the value of the effective  group  ID.   In  fact,
       whenever  the effective group ID is changed, fsgid will also be changed to the new value of the effective
       group ID.

       Explicit calls to setfsuid(2) and setfsgid() are usually used only by programs  such  as  the  Linux  NFS
       server  that need to change what user and group ID is used for file access without a corresponding change
       in the real and effective user and group IDs.  A change in the normal user IDs for a program such as  the
       NFS server is a security hole that can expose it to unwanted signals.  (But see below.)

       setfsgid() will succeed only if the caller is the superuser or if fsgid matches either the real group ID,
       effective group ID, saved set-group-ID, or the current value of fsgid.

RETURN VALUE
       On success, the previous value of fsgid is returned.  On error, the current value of fsgid is returned.

VERSIONS
       This system call is present in Linux since version 1.2.

CONFORMING TO
       setfsgid() is Linux-specific and should not be used in programs intended to be portable.

NOTES
       When glibc determines that the argument is not a valid group ID, it will return -1 and set errno to  EIN‐
       VAL without attempting the system call.

       Note  that  at  the time this system call was introduced, a process could send a signal to a process with
       the same effective user ID.  Today signal permission handling is slightly different.

       The original Linux setfsgid() system call supported only 16-bit group IDs.  Subsequently, Linux 2.4 added
       setfsgid32()  supporting  32-bit IDs.  The glibc setfsgid() wrapper function transparently deals with the
       variation across kernel versions.

BUGS
       No error messages of any kind are returned to the caller.  At the very least, EPERM  should  be  returned
       when the call fails (because the caller lacks the CAP_SETGID capability).

SEE ALSO
       kill(2), setfsuid(2), capabilities(7), credentials(7)

COLOPHON
       This  page  is  part  of  release 3.53 of the Linux man-pages project.  A description of the project, and
       information about reporting bugs, can be found at http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.



Linux                                              2010-11-22                                        SETFSGID(2)
