SETFSUID(2)                                 Linux Programmer's Manual                                SETFSUID(2)



NAME
       setfsuid - set user identity used for file system checks

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h> /* glibc uses <sys/fsuid.h> */

       int setfsuid(uid_t fsuid);

DESCRIPTION
       The  system  call setfsuid() sets the user ID that the Linux kernel uses to check for all accesses to the
       file system.  Normally, the value of fsuid will shadow the value of the  effective  user  ID.   In  fact,
       whenever  the  effective user ID is changed, fsuid will also be changed to the new value of the effective
       user ID.

       Explicit calls to setfsuid() and setfsgid(2) are usually used only by programs  such  as  the  Linux  NFS
       server  that need to change what user and group ID is used for file access without a corresponding change
       in the real and effective user and group IDs.  A change in the normal user IDs for a program such as  the
       NFS server is a security hole that can expose it to unwanted signals.  (But see below.)

       setfsuid()  will succeed only if the caller is the superuser or if fsuid matches either the real user ID,
       effective user ID, saved set-user-ID, or the current value of fsuid.

RETURN VALUE
       On success, the previous value of fsuid is returned.  On error, the current value of fsuid is returned.

VERSIONS
       This system call is present in Linux since version 1.2.

CONFORMING TO
       setfsuid() is Linux-specific and should not be used in programs intended to be portable.

NOTES
       When glibc determines that the argument is not a valid user ID, it will return -1 and set errno to EINVAL
       without attempting the system call.

       Note  that  at  the time this system call was introduced, a process could send a signal to a process with
       the same effective user ID.  Today signal permission handling is slightly different.

       The original Linux setfsuid() system call supported only 16-bit user IDs.  Subsequently, Linux 2.4  added
       setfsuid32()  supporting  32-bit IDs.  The glibc setfsuid() wrapper function transparently deals with the
       variation across kernel versions.

BUGS
       No error messages of any kind are returned to the caller.  At the very least, EPERM  should  be  returned
       when the call fails (because the caller lacks the CAP_SETUID capability).

SEE ALSO
       kill(2), setfsgid(2), capabilities(7), credentials(7)

COLOPHON
       This  page  is  part  of  release 3.53 of the Linux man-pages project.  A description of the project, and
       information about reporting bugs, can be found at http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.



Linux                                              2010-11-22                                        SETFSUID(2)
