MLOCK(2)                                    Linux Programmer's Manual                                   MLOCK(2)



NAME
       mlock, munlock, mlockall, munlockall - lock and unlock memory

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/mman.h>

       int mlock(const void *addr, size_t len);
       int munlock(const void *addr, size_t len);

       int mlockall(int flags);
       int munlockall(void);

DESCRIPTION
       mlock()  and mlockall() respectively lock part or all of the calling process's virtual address space into
       RAM, preventing that memory from being paged to the swap area.  munlock() and  munlockall()  perform  the
       converse operation, respectively unlocking part or all of the calling process's virtual address space, so
       that pages in the specified virtual address range may once more to be swapped out if required by the ker‐
       nel memory manager.  Memory locking and unlocking are performed in units of whole pages.

   mlock() and munlock()
       mlock()  locks  pages in the address range starting at addr and continuing for len bytes.  All pages that
       contain a part of the specified address range are guaranteed to be resident in RAM when the call  returns
       successfully; the pages are guaranteed to stay in RAM until later unlocked.

       munlock()  unlocks  pages in the address range starting at addr and continuing for len bytes.  After this
       call, all pages that contain a part of the specified memory range can be moved  to  external  swap  space
       again by the kernel.

   mlockall() and munlockall()
       mlockall() locks all pages mapped into the address space of the calling process.  This includes the pages
       of the code, data and stack segment, as well as shared libraries, user space kernel data, shared  memory,
       and  memory-mapped  files.   All  mapped pages are guaranteed to be resident in RAM when the call returns
       successfully; the pages are guaranteed to stay in RAM until later unlocked.

       The flags argument is constructed as the bitwise OR of one or more of the following constants:

       MCL_CURRENT Lock all pages which are currently mapped into the address space of the process.

       MCL_FUTURE  Lock all pages which will become mapped into the address space of the process in the  future.
                   These  could  be  for  instance new pages required by a growing heap and stack as well as new
                   memory mapped files or shared memory regions.

       If MCL_FUTURE has been specified, then a later system call (e.g., mmap(2), sbrk(2), malloc(3)), may  fail
       if  it  would  cause the number of locked bytes to exceed the permitted maximum (see below).  In the same
       circumstances, stack growth may likewise fail: the kernel will deny stack expansion and deliver a SIGSEGV
       signal to the process.

       munlockall() unlocks all pages mapped into the address space of the calling process.

RETURN VALUE
       On  success  these  system  calls return 0.  On error, -1 is returned, errno is set appropriately, and no
       changes are made to any locks in the address space of the process.

ERRORS
       ENOMEM (Linux 2.6.9 and later) the caller had a nonzero RLIMIT_MEMLOCK soft resource limit, but tried  to
              lock  more  memory  than the limit permitted.  This limit is not enforced if the process is privi‐
              leged (CAP_IPC_LOCK).

       ENOMEM (Linux 2.4 and earlier) the calling process tried to lock more than half of RAM.

       EPERM  The caller is not privileged, but needs privilege (CAP_IPC_LOCK) to perform the  requested  opera‐
              tion.

       For mlock() and munlock():

       EAGAIN Some or all of the specified address range could not be locked.

       EINVAL The  result of the addition start+len was less than start (e.g., the addition may have resulted in
              an overflow).

       EINVAL (Not on Linux) addr was not a multiple of the page size.

       ENOMEM Some of the specified address range does not correspond to mapped pages in the  address  space  of
              the process.

       For mlockall():

       EINVAL Unknown flags were specified.

       For munlockall():

       EPERM  (Linux 2.6.8 and earlier) The caller was not privileged (CAP_IPC_LOCK).

CONFORMING TO
       POSIX.1-2001, SVr4.

AVAILABILITY
       On  POSIX  systems  on  which  mlock()  and  munlock()  are available, _POSIX_MEMLOCK_RANGE is defined in
       <unistd.h> and the number of bytes in a page can be determined from the constant PAGESIZE (if defined) in
       <limits.h> or by calling sysconf(_SC_PAGESIZE).

       On  POSIX  systems  on  which  mlockall()  and  munlockall()  are available, _POSIX_MEMLOCK is defined in
       <unistd.h> to a value greater than 0.  (See also sysconf(3).)

NOTES
       Memory locking has two main applications: real-time algorithms and high-security data processing.   Real-
       time  applications require deterministic timing, and, like scheduling, paging is one major cause of unex‐
       pected program execution delays.  Real-time applications will usually also switch to a  real-time  sched‐
       uler with sched_setscheduler(2).  Cryptographic security software often handles critical bytes like pass‐
       words or secret keys as data structures.  As a result of paging, these secrets could be transferred  onto
       a persistent swap store medium, where they might be accessible to the enemy long after the security soft‐
       ware has erased the secrets in RAM and terminated.  (But be aware that the suspend mode  on  laptops  and
       some desktop computers will save a copy of the system's RAM to disk, regardless of memory locks.)

       Real-time  processes  that  are  using  mlockall() to prevent delays on page faults should reserve enough
       locked stack pages before entering the time-critical section, so that no page  fault  can  be  caused  by
       function calls.  This can be achieved by calling a function that allocates a sufficiently large automatic
       variable (an array) and writes to the memory occupied by this array in order to touch these stack  pages.
       This  way, enough pages will be mapped for the stack and can be locked into RAM.  The dummy writes ensure
       that not even copy-on-write page faults can occur in the critical section.

       Memory locks are not inherited by a child created via fork(2) and are  automatically  removed  (unlocked)
       during an execve(2) or when the process terminates.

       The  memory  lock  on an address range is automatically removed if the address range is unmapped via mun‐
       map(2).

       Memory locks do not stack, that is, pages which have been locked several times by  calls  to  mlock()  or
       mlockall() will be unlocked by a single call to munlock() for the corresponding range or by munlockall().
       Pages which are mapped to several locations or by several processes stay locked into RAM as long as  they
       are locked at least at one location or by at least one process.

   Linux notes
       Under  Linux, mlock() and munlock() automatically round addr down to the nearest page boundary.  However,
       POSIX.1-2001 allows an implementation to require that addr is  page  aligned,  so  portable  applications
       should ensure this.

       The  VmLck  field  of  the  Linux-specific  /proc/PID/status  file shows how many kilobytes of memory the
       process with ID PID has locked using mlock(), mlockall(), and mmap(2) MAP_LOCKED.

   Limits and permissions
       In Linux 2.6.8 and earlier, a process must be privileged (CAP_IPC_LOCK) in order to lock memory  and  the
       RLIMIT_MEMLOCK soft resource limit defines a limit on how much memory the process may lock.

       Since  Linux  2.6.9,  no limits are placed on the amount of memory that a privileged process can lock and
       the RLIMIT_MEMLOCK soft resource limit instead defines a limit on how much memory an unprivileged process
       may lock.

BUGS
       In  the  2.4 series Linux kernels up to and including 2.4.17, a bug caused the mlockall() MCL_FUTURE flag
       to be inherited across a fork(2).  This was rectified in kernel 2.4.18.

       Since kernel 2.6.9, if a privileged process calls mlockall(MCL_FUTURE) and later drops privileges  (loses
       the  CAP_IPC_LOCK  capability by, for example, setting its effective UID to a nonzero value), then subse‐
       quent memory allocations (e.g., mmap(2), brk(2)) will  fail  if  the  RLIMIT_MEMLOCK  resource  limit  is
       encountered.

SEE ALSO
       mmap(2), setrlimit(2), shmctl(2), sysconf(3), proc(5), capabilities(7)

COLOPHON
       This  page  is  part  of  release 3.53 of the Linux man-pages project.  A description of the project, and
       information about reporting bugs, can be found at http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.



Linux                                              2011-09-14                                           MLOCK(2)
