# Copyright (C) Rong Tao @Sylincom Beijing, 2019年 06月 26日 星期三 08:58:16 CST. 
LIBC(7)                               Linux Programmer's Manual                              LIBC(7)



NAME
       libc - overview of standard C libraries on Linux

DESCRIPTION
       The  term  "libc"  is commonly used as a shorthand for the "standard C library", a library of
       standard functions that can be used by all C programs (and sometimes  by  programs  in  other
       languages).   Because  of  some  history  (see below), use of the term "libc" to refer to the
       standard C library is somewhat ambiguous on Linux.

   glibc
       By far the most widely used C library on Linux  is  the  GNU  C  Library  ⟨http://www.gnu.org
       /software/libc/⟩, often referred to as glibc.  This is the C library that is nowadays used in
       all major Linux distributions.  It is also the C library whose details are documented in  the
       relevant  pages  of the man-pages project (primarily in Section 3 of the manual).  Documenta‐
       tion of glibc is also available in the glibc manual, available via  the  command  info  libc.
       Release  1.0  of  glibc  was made in September 1992.  (There were earlier 0.x releases.)  The
       next major release of glibc was 2.0, at the beginning of 1997.

       The pathname /lib/libc.so.6 (or something similar) is normally a symbolic link that points to
       the  location  of  the glibc library, and executing this pathname will cause glibc to display
       various information about the version installed on your system.

   Linux libc
       In the early to mid 1990s, there was for a while Linux libc, a fork of glibc 1.x  created  by
       Linux  developers who felt that glibc development at the time was not sufficing for the needs
       of Linux.  Often, this library was referred to (ambiguously)  as  just  "libc".   Linux  libc
       released  major  versions  2, 3, 4, and 5 (as well as many minor versions of those releases).
       For a while, Linux libc was the standard C library in  many  Linux  distributions.   However,
       notwithstanding  the original motivations of the Linux libc effort, by the time glibc 2.0 was
       released, it was clearly superior to Linux libc, and all major Linux distributions  that  had
       been using Linux libc soon switched back to glibc.  (Since this switch occurred over a decade
       ago, man-pages no longer takes care to document Linux libc details.  Nevertheless,  the  his‐
       tory is visible in vestiges of information about Linux libc that remain in some manual pages,
       in particular, references to libc4 and libc5.)

   Other C libraries
       There are various other less widely used C libraries for Linux.  These libraries  are  gener‐
       ally  smaller  than glibc, both in terms of features and memory footprint, and often intended
       for building small binaries, perhaps targeted at  development  for  embedded  Linux  systems.
       Among     such     libraries     are    uClibc    (http://www.uclibc.org/)    and    dietlibc
       (http://www.fefe.de/dietlibc/).  Details of these libraries are generally not covered by  the
       man-pages project.

SEE ALSO
       syscalls(2), feature_test_macros(7), man-pages(7), standards(7)

COLOPHON
       This  page  is  part  of  release  3.53 of the Linux man-pages project.  A description of the
       project,    and    information    about    reporting    bugs,     can     be     found     at
       http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.



Linux                                        2012-08-05                                      LIBC(7)
