UNAME(3P)                                   POSIX Programmer's Manual                                  UNAME(3P)



PROLOG
       This  manual  page  is part of the POSIX Programmer's Manual.  The Linux implementation of this interface
       may differ (consult the corresponding Linux manual page for details of Linux behavior), or the  interface
       may not be implemented on Linux.

NAME
       uname - get the name of the current system

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/utsname.h>

       int uname(struct utsname *name);


DESCRIPTION
       The  uname()  function shall store information identifying the current system in the structure pointed to
       by name.

       The uname() function uses the utsname structure defined in <sys/utsname.h>.

       The uname() function shall return a string naming the current system in the character array sysname. Sim‐
       ilarly, nodename shall contain the name of this node within an implementation-defined communications net‐
       work. The arrays release and version shall further identify the operating system. The array machine shall
       contain a name that identifies the hardware that the system is running on.

       The format of each member is implementation-defined.

RETURN VALUE
       Upon  successful completion, a non-negative value shall be returned.  Otherwise, -1 shall be returned and
       errno set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       No errors are defined.

       The following sections are informative.

EXAMPLES
       None.

APPLICATION USAGE
       The inclusion of the nodename member in this structure does not imply that it is  sufficient  information
       for interfacing to communications networks.

RATIONALE
       The  values of the structure members are not constrained to have any relation to the version of this vol‐
       ume of IEEE Std 1003.1-2001 implemented in the operating system. An application should instead depend  on
       _POSIX_VERSION and related constants defined in <unistd.h>.

       This volume of IEEE Std 1003.1-2001 does not define the sizes of the members of the structure and permits
       them to be of different sizes, although most implementations define them all to be the same  size:  eight
       bytes  plus  one  byte  for the string terminator. That size for nodename is not enough for use with many
       networks.

       The uname() function originated in System III, System V, and related implementations,  and  it  does  not
       exist  in  Version 7 or 4.3 BSD. The values it returns are set at system compile time in those historical
       implementations.

       4.3 BSD has gethostname() and gethostid(), which return a symbolic name  and  a  numeric  value,  respec‐
       tively.  There  are  related  sethostname() and sethostid() functions that are used to set the values the
       other two functions return. The former functions are included in this specification, the latter are not.

FUTURE DIRECTIONS
       None.

SEE ALSO
       The Base Definitions volume of IEEE Std 1003.1-2001, <sys/utsname.h>

COPYRIGHT
       Portions of this text are reprinted and reproduced in electronic form from IEEE Std 1003.1, 2003 Edition,
       Standard  for  Information Technology -- Portable Operating System Interface (POSIX), The Open Group Base
       Specifications Issue 6, Copyright (C) 2001-2003 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,
       Inc  and  The  Open Group. In the event of any discrepancy between this version and the original IEEE and
       The Open Group Standard, the original IEEE and The Open Group Standard is the referee document. The orig‐
       inal Standard can be obtained online at http://www.opengroup.org/unix/online.html .



IEEE/The Open Group                                   2003                                             UNAME(3P)
