IFTOP(8)                                     System Manager's Manual                                    IFTOP(8)



NAME
       iftop - display bandwidth usage on an interface by host


SYNOPSIS
       iftop -h | [-nNpblP] [-u unit] [-i interface] [-f filter code] [-F net/mask] [-G net6/mask6]

DESCRIPTION
       iftop  listens to network traffic on a named interface, or on the first interface it can find which looks
       like an external interface if none is specified, and displays a table of current bandwidth usage by pairs
       of hosts.  iftop must be run with sufficient permissions to monitor all network traffic on the interface;
       see pcap(3) for more information, but on most systems this means that it must be run as root.

       By default, iftop will look up the hostnames associated with addresses it  finds  in  packets.  This  can
       cause substantial traffic of itself, and may result in a confusing display. You may wish to suppress dis‐
       play of DNS traffic by using filter code such as not port domain, or switch it off entirely, by using the
       -n option or by pressing r when the program is running.

       By  default, iftop counts all IP packets that pass through the filter, and the direction of the packet is
       determined according to the direction the packet is moving across the interface.  Using the -F option  it
       is  possible  to  get  iftop to show packets entering and leaving a given network.  For example, iftop -F
       10.0.0.0/255.0.0.0 will analyse packets flowing in and out of the 10.* network.

       Some other filter ideas:

       not ether host ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff
              Ignore ethernet broadcast packets.

       port http and not host webcache.example.com
              Count web traffic only, unless it is being directed through a local web cache.

       icmp   How much bandwidth are users wasting trying to figure out why the network is slow?


OPTIONS
       -h     Print a summary of usage.

       -n     Don't do hostname lookups.

       -N     Do not resolve port number to service names

       -p     Run in promiscuous mode, so that traffic which does not pass directly through the specified inter‐
              face is also counted.

       -P     Turn on port display.

       -l     Display and count datagrams addressed to or from link-local IPv6 addresses.  The default is not to
              display that address category.

       -b     Don't display bar graphs of traffic.

       -m limit
              Set the upper limit for the bandwidth scale.  Specified as a number with a 'K', 'M' or 'G' suffix.

       -u bits|bytes|packets
              Display bandwidth rates in the given unit (per second).

       -B     Synonym for -u bits.

       -i interface
              Listen to packets on interface.

       -f filter code
              Use filter code to select the packets to count. Only IP packets are ever counted, so the specified
              code is evaluated as (filter code) and ip.

       -F net/mask
              Specifies  an  IPv4  network  for traffic analysis.  If specified, iftop will only include packets
              flowing in to or out of the given network, and packet direction is determined relative to the net‐
              work  boundary,  rather  than  to  the  interface.  You may specify mask as a dotted quad, such as
              /255.255.255.0, or as a single number specifying the number of bits set in the  netmask,  such  as
              /24.

       -G net6/mask6
              Specifies an IPv6 network for traffic analysis. The value of mask6 can be given as a prefix length
              or as a numerical address string for more compound bitmasking.

       -c config file
              Specifies an alternate config file.  If not specified, iftop will use  ~/.iftoprc  if  it  exists.
              See below for a description of config files

       -t text output mode
              Use text interface without ncurses and print the output to STDOUT.



DISPLAY
       When  running, iftop uses the whole screen to display network usage. At the top of the display is a loga‐
       rithmic scale for the bar graph which gives a visual indication of traffic.

       The main part of the display lists, for each pair of hosts, the rate at which  data  has  been  sent  and
       received  over  the  preceding  2, 10 and 40 second intervals. The direction of data flow is indicated by
       arrows, <= and =>. For instance,

       foo.example.com  =>  bar.example.com      1Kb  500b   100b
                        <=                       2Mb    2Mb    2Mb

       shows, on the first line, traffic from foo.example.com to bar.example.com; in the  preceding  2  seconds,
       this averaged 1Kbit/s, around half that amount over the preceding 10s, and a fifth of that over the whole
       of the last 40s. During each of those intervals, the data sent in the other direction was about  2Mbit/s.
       On  the  actual  display, part of each line is inverted to give a visual indication of the 10s average of
       traffic.  You might expect to see something like this where host foo is making repeated HTTP requests  to
       bar, which is sending data back which saturates a 2Mbit/s link.

       By  default, the pairs of hosts responsible for the most traffic (10 second average) are displayed at the
       top of the list.

       At the bottom of the display, various totals are shown, including peak traffic over the last  40s,  total
       traffic transferred (after filtering), and total transfer rates averaged over 2s, 10s and 40s.


SOURCE / DEST AGGREGATION
       By  pressing s or d while iftop is running, all traffic for each source or destination will be aggregated
       together.  This is most useful when iftop is run in promiscuous mode, or is run on a gateway machine.


PORT DISPLAY
       S or D toggle the display of source and destination  ports  respectively.  p  will  toggle  port  display
       on/off.


DISPLAY TYPE
       t  cycles through the four line display modes; the default 2-line display, with sent and received traffic
       on separate lines, and 3 1-line displays, with sent, received, or total traffic shown.


DISPLAY ORDER
       By default, the display is ordered according to the 10s average (2nd column).  By pressing 1, 2 or  3  it
       is  possible  to  sort  by the 1st, 2nd or 3rd column.   By pressing < or > the display will be sorted by
       source or destination hostname respectively.


DISPLAY FILTERING
       l allows you to enter a POSIX extended regular expression that will be used to filter hostnames shown  in
       the  display.   This is a good way to quickly limit what is shown on the display.  Note that this happens
       at a much later stage than filter code, and does not affect what is actually captured.   Display  filters
       DO NOT affect the totals at the bottom of the screen.


PAUSE DISPLAY / FREEZE ORDER
       P will pause the current display.

       o will freeze the current screen order.  This has the side effect that traffic between hosts not shown on
       the screen at the time will not be shown at all, although it will be included in the totals at the bottom
       of the screen.


SCROLL DISPLAY
       j  and  k will scroll the display of hosts.  This feature is most useful when the display order is frozen
       (see above).


FILTER CODE
       f allows you to edit the filter code whilst iftop running.  This can lead to some unexpected behaviour.


CONFIG FILE
       iftop can read its configuration from a config file.  If the -c  option  is  not  specified,  iftop  will
       attempt to read its configuration from ~/.iftoprc, if it exists.  Any command line options specified will
       override settings in the config file.

       The config file consists of one configuration directive per line.  Each directive is a name  value  pair,
       for example:

       interface: eth0

       sets the network interface.  The following config directives are supported:


       interface: if
              Sets the network interface to if.

       dns-resolution: (yes|no)
              Controls reverse lookup of IP addresses.

       port-resolution: (yes|no)
              Controls conversion of port numbers to service names.

       filter-code: bpf
              Sets the filter code to bpf.

       show-bars: (yes|no)
              Controls display of bar graphs.

       promiscuous: (yes|no)
              Puts the interface into promiscuous mode.

       port-display: (off|source-only|destination-only|on)
              Controls display of port numbers.

       link-local: (yes|no)
              Determines displaying of link-local IPv6 addresses.

       hide-source: (yes|no)
              Hides source host names.

       hide-destination: (yes|no)
              Hides destination host names.

       bandwidth-unit: (bits|bytes|packets)
              Use the specified unit for bandwidth display. The default is bits.

       use-bytes: (yes|no)
              use-bytes: yes is a synonym of bandwidth-unit: packets.

       sort: (2s|10s|40s|source|destination)
              Sets which column is used to sort the display.

       line-display: (two-line|one-line-both|one-line-sent|one-line-received)
              Controls the appearance of each item in the display.

       show-totals: (yes|no)
              Shows cumulative total for each item.

       log-scale: (yes|no)
              Use a logarithmic scale for bar graphs.

       max-bandwidth: bw
              Fixes  the maximum for the bar graph scale to bw, e.g. "10M". Note that the value has to always be
              in bits, regardless if the option to display in bytes has been chosen.

       net-filter: net/mask
              Defines an IP network boundary for determining packet direction.

       net-filter6: net6/mask6
              Defines an IPv6 network boundary for determining packet direction.

       screen-filter: regexp
              Sets a regular expression to filter screen output.


QUIRKS (aka they're features, not bugs)
       There are some circumstances in which iftop may not do what you expect.  In most cases what it  is  doing
       is  logical,  and  we  believe it is correct behaviour, although I'm happy to hear reasoned arguments for
       alternative behaviour.

       Totals don't add up

       There are several reasons why the totals may not appear to add up.  The most obvious is having  a  screen
       filter  in  effect, or screen ordering frozen.  In this case some captured information is not being shown
       to you, but is included in the totals.

       A more subtle explanation comes about when running in promiscuous mode without specifying  a  -F  option.
       In  this case there is no easy way to assign the direction of traffic between two third parties.  For the
       purposes of the main display this is done in an arbitrary fashion (by ordering of IP addresses), but  for
       the  sake  of  totals all traffic between other hosts is accounted as incoming, because that's what it is
       from the point of view of your interface.  The -F option allows  you  to  specify  an  arbitrary  network
       boundary, and to show traffic flowing across it.

       Peak totals don't add up

       Again,  this  is  a feature.  The peak sent and peak received didn't necessarily happen at the same time.
       The peak total is the maximum of sent plus received in each captured time division.

       Changing the filter code doesn't seem to work

       Give it time.  Changing the filter code affects what is captured from the time that you entered  it,  but
       most  of  what  is  on  the display is based on some fraction of the last 40s window of capturing.  After
       changing the filter there may be entries on the display that are disallowed by the current filter for  up
       to 40s.  DISPLAY FILTERING has immediate effect and does not affect what is captured.


FILES
       ~/.iftoprc
              Configuration file for iftop.


SEE ALSO
       tcpdump(8), pcap(3), driftnet(1).


AUTHOR
       Paul Warren <pdw@ex-parrot.com>


VERSION
       $Id$


COPYING
       This  program  is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Gen‐
       eral Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
       your option) any later version.

       This  program  is  distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even
       the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU  General  Public
       License for more details.

       You  should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program; if not, write
       to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.




                                                                                                        IFTOP(8)
