VNSTAT(1)                                         User Manuals                                         VNSTAT(1)



NAME
       vnstat - a console-based network traffic monitor


SYNOPSIS
       vnstat  [  -Ddhlmqrstuvw?   ]  [  --cleartop  ]  [ --config file ] [ --create ] [ --days ] [ --delete ] [
       --dbdir directory ] [ --debug ] [ --disable ] [ --enable ] [ --exportdb ]  [  --help  ]  [  --hours  ]  [
       --importdb  file  ] [ -i interface ] [ --iface interface ] [ --iflist ] [ --json mode ] [ --live mode ] [
       --locale locale ] [ --longhelp ] [ --months ] [ --nick nickname ] [ --oneline ] [ --query ] [  --rateunit
       ] [ --rebuildtotal ] [ --reset ] [ -ru ] [ --savemerged ] [ --short ] [ --showconfig ] [ --style number ]
       [ --sync ] [ --testkernel ] [ --top10 ] [ -tr time ] [ --traffic time ] [ --update  ]  [  --version  ]  [
       --weeks ] [ --xml mode ]


DESCRIPTION
       vnStat  is  a  console-based network traffic monitor. It keeps a log of hourly, daily and monthly network
       traffic for the selected interface(s). However, it isn't a packet sniffer.  The  traffic  information  is
       read  from  the  proc(5)  or  sys filesystems depending on availability. That way vnStat can be used even
       without root permissions on most systems.

       The implementation is divided into two commands. The purpose of the  vnstat  command  is  to  provide  an
       interface  for  querying  the traffic information stored in network interface specific databases where as
       the daemon vnstatd(1) is responsible for data retrieval and storage. Although the daemon process is  con‐
       stantly running as a service, it is actually spending most of the time sleeping between data updates.


OPTIONS
       --cleartop
              Remove all top 10 entries.


       --config file
              Use file as configuration file instead of using normal configuration file search functionality.


       --create
              Create database for interface specified with -i or --iface option.


       -d, --days
              Show traffic statistics on a daily basis for the last 30 days.


       --dbdir directory
              Use  directory as database directory instead of using the directory specified in the configuration
              file or the hardcoded default if no configuration file is available.


       -D, --debug
              Show additional debug output.


       --delete
              Delete the database for the interface specified with -i or --iface and stop monitoring it.


       --enable, --disable
              Enable or disable updates for selected interface. Useful for interfaces that aren't always  avail‐
              able,  like  ppp0.  If the interface goes down it should be disabled in order to avoid errors. Add
              something like vnstat -r --disable -i ppp0 to the script that's executed when the  interface  goes
              down and vnstat --enable -i ppp0 to the up script. These two options aren't needed when the daemon
              is used.


       --exportdb
              Instead of showing the database with a formatted output, this output will dump the whole  database
              in  a  plain text based architeture independent format.  The output can be imported back using the
              --importdb option and can be used for moving  a  database  from  one  host  to  another.  See  the
              --importdb  documentation below for an example. Using the output for scripting is possible but the
              outputs of --xml and --json are likely to be more suitable. The dump uses ; as field delimeter.

                    active;1             activity status
                    interface;eth0       name for the interface
                    nick;inet            nick (if given)
                    created;1023895272   creation date in Unix time
                    updated;1065467100   when the database was updated
                    totalrx;569605       all time total received MiB
                    totaltx;2023708      all time total transmitted MiB
                    currx;621673719      latest rx value in /proc
                    curtx;981730184      latest tx value in /proc
                    totalrxk;644         total rx KiB counter
                    totaltxk;494         total tx KiB counter
                    btime;1059414541     system boot time in Unix time

              Then follows 30 lines like the following

                    d;0;1078696800;559;7433;68;557;1

              where d = days, 0 = day number in database (0 is today), 1077314401 date in Unix time,  559  =  rx
              MiB, 7433 = tx MiB, 68 = rx KiB, 557 = tx KiB and 1 tells that vnStat has filled this value and it
              is in use.

                    m;0;1078092000;48649;139704;527;252;1   (x12)
                    t;0;1078351200;5979;47155;362;525;1     (x10)
                    h;0;1078699800;118265;516545            (x24)

              m = months, t = top 10 and h = hours, all other fields are in the same order  as  in  days  except
              hours  that doesn't have a separate KiB value. For hours the forth and fifth fields have values in
              KiB.


       -h, --hours
              Show traffic statistics on a hourly basis for the last 24 hours.


       --importdb file
              Import a database from file which was previously exported using the --exportdb option. This can be
              used  to  transfer a database between different architectures and hosts, as the database is archi‐
              tecture dependant and not compatible between different architectures. First dump the  database  on
              one  host, e.g. with vnstat -i ppp0 --exportdb >ppp0db.txt and then import the text file on a dif‐
              ferent host using vnstat -i ppp0 --importdb ppp0db.txt


       -i, --iface interface
              Select one specific interface and apply actions to only it. For queries, it is possible  to  merge
              the information of two or more interfaces using the interface1+interface2+...  syntax.


       --iflist
              Show list of currently available interfaces.


       --json mode
              Show  database content for selected interface or all interfaces in json format. All traffic values
              in the output are in KiB. An optional mode parameter can be used for limiting the output  to  only
              selected information.  Everything is shown by default. Setting mode to 'h' will output only hours,
              'd' days, 'm' months and 't' the top 10.


       -l, --live mode
              Display current transfer rate for the selected interface in real time until  interrupted.  Statis‐
              tics  will  be  shown after interruption if the runtime was more than 10 seconds. An optional mode
              parameter can be used to select between the displaying of packets per second (mode 0) and transfer
              counters (mode 1) during execution.  --style can also be used to affect the layout of the output.


       --locale locale
              Use  locale  instead of using the locale setting specified in the configuration file or the system
              default if no configuration file is available.


       --longhelp
              Show complete options list.


       -m, --months
              Show traffic statistics on a monthly basis for the last 12 months.


       --nick nickname
              Set the selected interfaces nickname as an alias the will be displayed in queries. Usage of -u  is
              required to save the change and the daemon may not be running during the set operation.


       --oneline
              Show  traffic  summary  for  selected interface using one line with a parseable format. The output
              contains 15 fields with ; used as field delimeter. The 1st field contains the version  information
              of  the  output  that will be changed in future versions of vnStat if the field structure changes.
              The following fields in order 2) interface name, 3) timestamp for today, 4) rx for  today,  5)  tx
              for  today, 6) total for today, 7) average traffic rate for today, 8) timestamp for current month,
              9) rx for current month, 10) tx for current month, 11) total for current month, 12) average  traf‐
              fic rate for today, 13) all time total rx, 14) all time total tx, 15) all time total traffic.


       -q, --query
              Force database query mode.


       -r, --reset
              Reset  the internal counters in the database for the selected interface. Use this if the interface
              goes down and back up, otherwise that interface will get some extra traffic to its database.   Not
              needed when the daemon is used.


       --rebuildtotal
              Reset the total traffic counters and recount those using recorded months.


       -ru, --rateunit
              Swap  the configured rate unit. If rate has been configured to be shown in bytes then rate will be
              shown in bits if this option is present. In the same way, if rate has been configured to be  shown
              in  bits then rate will be shown in bytes when this option is present. Alternatively 0 or 1 can be
              given as parameter for this option in order to select between bytes (0) and bits (1) regardless of
              the configuration file setting.


       --savemerged
              Write the end result of a database merge to the file mergeddb that can then be used as a new data‐
              base if renamed. Top 10 traffic days isn't included in the merge and will start empty in  the  new
              database.  The merge interface syntax is documented in -i, --iface option.


       -s, --short
              Use short output mode. This mode is also used if more than one database is available.


       --style number
              Modify  the content and style of outputs. Set number to 0 for a more narrow output, 1 for enabling
              bar column, 2 for same as previous but with average traffic rate visible  in  summary  and  weekly
              outputs  and  3 for enabling average traffic rate in all outputs where it is supported. 4 disables
              the use of terminal control characters in -l / --live mode.


       --sync Synchronize internal counters in the database with interface counters for the selected  interface.
              Use this if the system is rebooted but interface counters aren't reseted. Such can occur when sus‐
              pend to ram/disk is used. Not needed when the daemon is used.


       --testkernel
              Test if the kernel boot time information always stays the same like it should or if it's shifting.


       -t, --top10
              Show all time top 10 traffic days.


       -tr time
              Calculate how much traffic goes through the selected interface during the given time seconds.  The
              time will be 5 seconds if a number parameter isn't specified.


       -u, --update
              Update  all  enabled databases or only the one specified with -i parameter. Not supported when the
              daemon is running.


       -v, --version
              Show current version.


       -w, --weeks
              Show traffic for 7 days, current and previous week.


       --xml mode
              Show database content for selected interface or all interfaces in xml format. All  traffic  values
              in  the  output are in KiB. An optional mode parameter can be used for limiting the output to only
              selected information.  Everything is shown by default. Setting mode to 'h' will output only hours,
              'd' days, 'm' months and 't' the top 10.


       -?, --help
              Show a command option summary.


FILES
       /var/lib/vnstat/
              This directory contains all databases the program uses. Files are named according to the monitored
              interfaces. A backup copy of each database is kept in a file starting with a . (dot character) and
              otherwise named according to the original file.


       /etc/vnstat.conf
              Config  file that will be used unless $HOME/.vnstatrc exists. See vnstat.conf(5) for more informa‐
              tion.


EXAMPLES
       vnstat Display traffic summary for the default interface or multiple interfaces when  more  than  one  is
              monitored.


       vnstat -i eth0+eth1+eth3
              Display traffic summary for a merge of interfaces eth0, eth1 and eth3.


       vnstat -i eth2 --xml
              Output all information about interface eth2 in xml format.


       vnstat --json
              Output all information of all monitored interfaces in json format.


       vnstat -u -i eth0
              Force  a  database  update  for interface eth0 or create the database if it doesn't exist. This is
              usually the first command used after a fresh install if the daemon isn't used.


       vnstat -u -i eth0 --nick local
              Give interface eth0 the nickname "local". That information will be later later visible as a  label
              when  eth0  is queried. The database will also be updated when this command is executed or created
              if the database doesn't exist.


       vnstat -i eth2 --delete
              Delete database of interface eth2 and stop monitoring it.


RESTRICTIONS
       Updates needs to be executed at least as often as it is possible for the  interface  to  generate  enough
       traffic  to  overflow  the  kernel interface traffic counter. Otherwise, it is possible that some traffic
       won't be seen. This isn't an issue for 64-bit kernels but at  least  one  update  every  hour  is  always
       required  in  order  to  provide proper input.  With 32-bit kernels, the maximum time between two updates
       depends on how fast the interface can transfer 4 GiB. Calculated theoretical times are:

              10 Mbit:        54 minutes
              100 Mbit:        5 minutes
              1000 Mbit:      30 seconds

       However, for 1000 Mbit interfaces updating once every minute is  usually  a  usable  solution  if  faster
       updates can't be used.

       Estimated  traffic  values  are likely to be somewhat inaccurate if daily traffic is low because only the
       MiB counter is used to calculate the estimate.

       Virtual and aliased interfaces cannot be monitored because the kernel doesn't provide traffic information
       for  that type of interfaces. Such interfaces are usually named eth0:0, eth0:1, eth0:2 etc. where eth0 is
       the actual interface being aliased.

       Using long date output formats may cause misalignment in shown columns if the length of the date  exceeds
       the fixed size allocation.


AUTHOR
       Teemu Toivola <tst at iki dot fi>


SEE ALSO
       vnstatd(1), vnstati(1), vnstat.conf(5), proc(5), ifconfig(8), units(7)



version 1.15                                      DECEMBER 2015                                        VNSTAT(1)
