代理服务器的类型

代理服务器根据用途和功能分为几种类型。一些最常见的类型及其用途可以描述如下：

Web代理是最常见的代理应用程序类型，它通过访问缓存的网页中的资源和远程Web服务器上可用的文件来响应用户请求。这有助于本地网络客户端快速，可靠地访问数据。如果在高速缓存中找不到请求的资源，则Web代理将从远程服务器获取文件，并在将其返回给客户端之前将副本保存在高速缓存中。

透明代理主要用于缓存网站和克服简单的IP禁止。但是，由于暴露了用户的原始IP地址，因此此类代理不提供任何用户匿名性。客户端计算机上没有专门配置透明代理。

匿名代理不会隐藏用户的原始IP地址。但是，它们为大多数用户提供了足够的匿名性。匿名代理很容易检测到。

失真的代理，将自己标识为代理服务器，并修改HTTP标头以掩盖原始IP地址。

隧道代理能够传递客户端请求并返回响应，而无需进行任何修改。这些也称为网关代理。

转发代理通过从Internet上的各种来源检索数据来响应客户端请求。它也称为面向Internet的代理。
开放式代理属于转发代理服务器的类别，任何Internet用户都可以访问它们，因为它们可以接收和返回来自任何客户端计算机的请求。同时，匿名开放代理用于用户匿名来隐藏IP地址。

反向代理，也称为代理，通常从Internet接收请求并将其转发到内部网络服务器。反向代理服务器将请求转发到一个或多个代理服务器，其响应将返回给客户端计算机，客户端计算机的用户不知道响应的来源。


Types of Proxy servers

Proxy servers are classified into several types based on purpose and functionality. Some of the most common types and their uses can be described as below:

Web Proxy is the most common type of proxy application, which responds to the user requests by accessing resources from cached web pages and files available on remote web servers. This facilitates quick and reliable access to data for local network clients. If the requested resource is not found in the cache, then a web proxy fetches the file from the remote server, and saves a copy in the cache before returning it to the client.

Transparent Proxy is mostly used for caching websites and overcoming simple IP bans. However, such proxies do not provide any user anonymity since user’s original IP address is exposed. Transparent proxies are not specifically configured on the client computers.

Anonymous proxies do not hide the original IP address of the user; however, they provide adequate anonymity to most users. Anonymous proxies are easily detectable.

A distorting proxy, identifies itself as a proxy server, and modify the HTTP headers to disguise the original IP address.

Tunneling proxies are capable of passing client requests and return responses without making any modifications. These are also referred to as gateway proxies.

A forward proxy responds to client requests by retrieving data from a wide range of sources on the internet. It is also referred to as an Internet-facing proxy.
Open proxies belong to the category of forwarding proxy servers, which are accessible by any internet user since they can receive and return requests from any client computer. Meanwhile, anonymous open proxies are used for user anonymity to conceal the IP address.

Reverse proxies, also known as surrogates, usually receive requests from the Internet and forward them to internal network servers. A reverse proxy server forwards requests to one or more proxy servers, whose response is returned to the client computer, the user of which has no knowledge on the origin of the response.




