RENAME(2)                                   Linux Programmer's Manual                                  RENAME(2)



NAME
       rename - change the name or location of a file

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       int rename(const char *oldpath, const char *newpath);

DESCRIPTION
       rename() renames a file, moving it between directories if required.  Any other hard links to the file (as
       created using link(2)) are unaffected.  Open file descriptors for oldpath are also unaffected.

       If newpath already exists it will be atomically replaced (subject to a few conditions; see ERRORS below),
       so that there is no point at which another process attempting to access newpath will find it missing.

       If  oldpath  and  newpath are existing hard links referring to the same file, then rename() does nothing,
       and returns a success status.

       If newpath exists but the operation fails for some reason rename() guarantees to  leave  an  instance  of
       newpath in place.

       oldpath  can  specify  a  directory.   In this case, newpath must either not exist, or it must specify an
       empty directory.

       However, when overwriting there will probably be a window in which both oldpath and newpath refer to  the
       file being renamed.

       If  oldpath  refers to a symbolic link the link is renamed; if newpath refers to a symbolic link the link
       will be overwritten.

RETURN VALUE
       On success, zero is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and errno is set appropriately.

ERRORS
       EACCES Write permission is denied for the directory containing oldpath or newpath, or, search  permission
              is  denied  for  one  of the directories in the path prefix of oldpath or newpath, or oldpath is a
              directory and does not allow write permission  (needed  to  update  the  ..   entry).   (See  also
              path_resolution(7).)

       EBUSY  The rename fails because oldpath or newpath is a directory that is in use by some process (perhaps
              as current working directory, or as root directory, or because it was open for reading) or  is  in
              use  by  the system (for example as mount point), while the system considers this an error.  (Note
              that there is no requirement to return EBUSY in such cases—there is nothing wrong with  doing  the
              rename  anyway—but it is allowed to return EBUSY if the system cannot otherwise handle such situa‐
              tions.)

       EDQUOT The user's quota of disk blocks on the file system has been exhausted.

       EFAULT oldpath or newpath points outside your accessible address space.

       EINVAL The new pathname contained a path prefix of the old, or, more generally, an attempt  was  made  to
              make a directory a subdirectory of itself.

       EISDIR newpath is an existing directory, but oldpath is not a directory.

       ELOOP  Too many symbolic links were encountered in resolving oldpath or newpath.

       EMLINK oldpath  already  has  the  maximum number of links to it, or it was a directory and the directory
              containing newpath has the maximum number of links.

       ENAMETOOLONG
              oldpath or newpath was too long.

       ENOENT The link named by oldpath does not exist; or, a directory component in newpath does not exist; or,
              oldpath or newpath is an empty string.

       ENOMEM Insufficient kernel memory was available.

       ENOSPC The device containing the file has no room for the new directory entry.

       ENOTDIR
              A  component  used as a directory in oldpath or newpath is not, in fact, a directory.  Or, oldpath
              is a directory, and newpath exists but is not a directory.

       ENOTEMPTY or EEXIST
              newpath is a nonempty directory, that is, contains entries other than "." and "..".

       EPERM or EACCES
              The directory containing oldpath has the sticky bit (S_ISVTX) set and the process's effective user
              ID  is  neither the user ID of the file to be deleted nor that of the directory containing it, and
              the process is not privileged (Linux: does not have the CAP_FOWNER capability); or newpath  is  an
              existing  file  and the directory containing it has the sticky bit set and the process's effective
              user ID is neither the user ID of the file to be replaced nor that of the directory containing it,
              and  the  process  is not privileged (Linux: does not have the CAP_FOWNER capability); or the file
              system containing pathname does not support renaming of the type requested.

       EROFS  The file is on a read-only file system.

       EXDEV  oldpath and newpath are not on the same mounted file system.  (Linux permits a file system  to  be
              mounted  at multiple points, but rename() does not work across different mount points, even if the
              same file system is mounted on both.)

CONFORMING TO
       4.3BSD, C89, C99, POSIX.1-2001.

BUGS
       On NFS file systems, you can not assume that if the operation failed the file was not  renamed.   If  the
       server does the rename operation and then crashes, the retransmitted RPC which will be processed when the
       server is up again causes a failure.  The application is expected to deal with this.  See link(2)  for  a
       similar problem.

SEE ALSO
       mv(1), chmod(2), link(2), renameat(2), symlink(2), unlink(2), path_resolution(7), symlink(7)

COLOPHON
       This  page  is  part  of  release 3.53 of the Linux man-pages project.  A description of the project, and
       information about reporting bugs, can be found at http://www.kernel.org/doc/man-pages/.



Linux                                              2013-01-27                                          RENAME(2)
