# Copyright (C) Rong Tao @Sylincom Beijing, 2019年 06月 14日 星期五 09:05:09 CST. 
 Copyright (C) Rong Tao @Sylincom Beijing, 2019年 03月 13日 星期三 08:53:53 CST. 
 Copyright (C) Rong Tao @Sylincom Beijing, 2019年 03月 12日 星期二 15:07:30 CST. 
flags for Argp Options
The following ﬂags may be or’d together in the flags feld of a struct argp_option. These
ﬂags control various aspects of how that option is parsed or displayed in help messages:
OPTION_ARG_OPTIONAL
The argument associated with this option is optional.
OPTION_HIDDEN
This option isn’t displayed in any help messages.
OPTION_ALIAS
This option is an alias for the closest previous non-alias option. This means
that it will be displayed in the same help entry, and will inherit felds other
than name and key from the option being aliased.
OPTION_DOC
This option isn’t actually an option and should be ignored by the actual option
parser. It is an arbitrary section of documentation that should be displayed
in much the same manner as the options. This is known as a documentation
option.
If this ﬂag is set, then the option name feld is displayed unmodifed (e.g., no
		‘--’ prefx is added) at the left-margin where a short option would normally be
displayed, and this documentation string is left in it’s usual place. For purposes
of sorting, any leading whitespace and punctuation is ignored, unless the frst
non-whitespace character is ‘-’. This entry is displayed after all options, after
OPTION_DOC entries with a leading ‘-’, in the same group.
OPTION_NO_USAGE
This option shouldn’t be included in ‘long’ usage messages, but should still be
included in other help messages. This is intended for options that are completely
documented in an argp’s args_doc feld. See Section 25.3.3 [Specifying Argp
Parsers], page 656. Including this option in the generic usage list would be
redundant, and should be avoided.
For instance, if args_doc is "FOO BAR\n-x BLAH", and the ‘-x’ option’s purpose
is to distinguish these two cases, ‘-x’ should probably be marked OPTION_NO_
USAGE.
